We now know how to merge queries,
now we have to do the same thing for the DIM-Region query.
So we have that codes-country-region query right here,
this looks fine
but now we have to add that region-name also to our DIM-Region query because that's the important
query for our later data model.
Now as we learn that and as we have that country ID column in that query and in this query, we can simply
go to merge queries again,
so home ribbon arrow and click that. Now select the country ID of the DIM-Region query, here
we can select the codes-country-region query and also select the country ID.
Now this should work easily because we know that this is fine
and we see an error.
Why do we see that error?
Well it says it actually,
we don't have the same format in both queries and that's a problem, because of that Power BI cannot
merge that queries,
now let's go back and change that. So we can go to the codes-country-region query and here, we have the
problem,
this is formatted as text
at the moment and in the DIM-Region table, we formatted that as whole number.
So let's apply the same format to the codes-country-region query and then see if the merge queries
function works,
so I'm clicking here and change the whole number.
Going back to the DIM-Region query, home ribbon, merge queries like this,
now we select the country ID again and go to that part and select the codes-country-region query
and now let's try it again and we see that it works right now with one single comment. We see that the selection
has merged
not all of the rows,
so two rows could not be matched.
Now imagine if we would use an inner join, then we would only have 199 roles in the end, so we would lose
two rows and
that's not what we want and that's why it's important to use the left outer join because it will display
the countries that it cannot find an ID in the codes-country-region query
and then we can change that.
So let's press OK
and now it takes a few seconds
and now we have to define how the column should be displayed again.
Now we learned that already,
so we can click onto that symbol right here and unselect our columns and only select a region name. We
don't use the original column name as prefix, so this is fine,
let's press OK
and now we see that the region names are added.
Now that we have that, I see a problem because if you look into that country list and even if you start
up here, you see that for instance Azerbaijan was allocated to two regions and although this might make
sense, for instance for Turkey which is in the EU and in Asia, this cannot be done right here in our project
because we don't have information about the share of the population that's allocated to each region,
we only have that information on country level and at that region level on our own,
so we need to decide which country or which region each country is allocated to to a single region, not
two regions
So let's change that in the codes-country-region query then and here we have the problem again.
So we see that country 51 for instance is located again to Europe and Asia,
let's change that.
So we have to go to the home ribbon and go to keep rows this time because keep rows allows us to see
how many duplicates we actually have.
Let's see that by pressing keep duplicates and we see that we have some countries where we have that problem,
so we should get rid of those and we will do that by undoing the last keep duplicates
step and now we will remove the duplicates.
I know, we could have a look at each country and decide what we have to do
but I think for the purpose of the project, it's fine if we just delete the duplicates and by that
make sure that each country is allocated to one region only.
Now we are in the home ribbon again, go to remove rows and remove the duplicates, like this.
Now we see that we only have unique values and if we go to the DIM-Region table again, we see that it reloads
to represent the actual change we did also in that query, takes a few seconds and now we see that the
duplicate values are gone,
this brings us back to our initial problem.
We saw that we could not match or merge all of the country IDs to regions,
we had two regions with nulls in the region name because we could not find the region name for that
country.
Let's take a look at that
by clicking onto the arrow next to region name and here we have the nulls.
So if we unselect everything and simply select allow, press
OK,
press OK,
we see that the two countries we have the problems with is the Sudan and the Channel Islands.
Now we have to adjust it manually again and to do that, we have to decide which region we want to allocate
those two countries to. I would suggest to allocate the Sudan to Africa and to allocate the Channel Islands
to Europe for instance,
that's just what we will do in the project.
So let's select all of the columns right here and press control Z because we will copy that information
into the new table again and then correct information the way we want it to be corrected.
Now let's do that
and unselect the filter, now we create a new table by pressing enter data, selecting the first column
and pressing control V.
Now let's rename the table first,
let's call that region additional countries, like this,
that's OK
and let's drag that also into our regions-countries folder. So the thing now is that we have information
in here that we don't need
and because if you think back into the codes-country-region query, we see that we need the country
ID, the region code and region name. At the moment
we have country ID, country and region name,
so we need to change that column.
So let's press on to that little symbol right here again,
change that to region code
and we said that the Sudan should be Africa, so F and the Channel Islands should be Europe,
so EU, like this and now we have to change the region name also to Africa and Europe,
Europe like this.
If we press OK right now, we see that the structure is the same that we had in the codes-country-region query.
So we can use another function that is already known to add these countries to the actual database
and we can do that with the append queries function,
so we go to codes-country-region, press the home ribbon, go to append queries like this,
we say we want to append to tables,
that's correct and we want to append the region additional countries table, like this.
And let's check if this worked by going to the filter, pressing 7-9, yes we want to see that
and we see that we have Africa the way we want it to be right here,
so this is good.
You can unselect the filter and now we can go to our DIM-Region table and see if that worked. Takes a few
seconds again,
let's see what happened, let me go right here, press 7-9,
wait a few seconds to load that
and we see that the region name could not be identified.
Why is this happening?
Well let's go back, again
this is a data format problem because if you go back to the codes-country-region, we see that we have that
combined format right now,
so we see that we have text and numbers and this is happening because we did not format the data right
here because here we defined the country ID as a text.
So if we changed it to whole number again, this updates, now this updates and you'll see that this text
symbol is gone and if you go to DIM-Region again,
wait a few seconds,
you have a lot of data
and to press on to the filter and press 7, type it to 9, like this, then we see that it now works
and this is great.
Let's do a final check by undoing that filter, going to region name and we see that we don't have any nulls
in here anymore.
So we can press OK
and now we are actually done with our DIM-Region table.
Nevertheless we need to work on the DIM AgeGroup table of course,
let's see what we have to do right there in the next video.